=pod

=head1 Regexes

A collection of functions related to the C<RegExp> class

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Regexes> module provides some commonly needed functionality related to
the C<RegExp> class.

For an in-depth explanation of the regular expressions that the C<RegExp> object
supports, see

=over

=item *

L<MSDN|https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms974570.aspx>

=item *

L<Regular-Expressions.info|http://www.regular-expressions.info/vbscript.html>

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 replace

    replace(text, pattern, replacement, options = globalx) As String

Takes [text], searches for [pattern] and replaces the match / all matches with
[replacement].

[pattern] can be any regular expression the C<RegExp> class supports.
[replacement] can be any replacement string with or without references the
C<RegExp> class supports.
[options] can be

=over

=item *

C<Regexes.globalx> if given will replace all occurrences found, otherwise
only the first one.

=item *

C<Regexes.ignoreCase> if given will ignore casing while matching.

=back

The options can be combined using C<Or>. Defaults to C<Regexes.globalx>.
Use 0 to disable all options.

=head2 escape

    Regexes.escape "John Doe (example@email.com)" ' "John Doe \(example@email\.com\)"

Takes a string and escapes all regex special characters in it, so the string
matches literally in a regular expression.

=head2 escapeReplacement

    Regexes.escapeReplacement "Price: $1.23" ' "Price: $$1.23"

Takes a string and escapes all reference characters in it, so the string can be
used as a literal replacement string during a regular expression match.

=cut
