=pod

=head1 Strings

A collection of C<String> handling functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    Strings.format "{0,3}: {1}", 2, "description" ' "  2: description"
    Strings.split "this is stuff" ' ["this" "is" "stuff"]
    Strings.join List_create("this", "is", "stuff"), " " ' "this is stuff"
    
=head1 DESCRIPTION

This C<Strings> class provides some commonly used operations on strings that are
not provided by VBA.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 format

    Strings.format "{0,3}: {1}", 2, "description" ' "  2: description"

Format a string using placeholders and formatting annotations. This function
closely follows the .Net C<String.Format()> implementation. For a detailed
explanation of the possible formatting codes see the L<MSDN|https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.string.format(v=vs.110).aspx#Starting>.

=head2 contains

    contains(text, searchTerm, caseSensitive = True)
    
Checks whether [text] contains the [searchTerm].

=head2 containsAny

    containsAny(text, caseSensitive, ParamArray searchTerms())

Checks whether [text] contains any of the specified [searchTerms].

=head2 startsWith

    startsWith(text, prefix, caseSensitive = True)

Checks whether [text] starts with [prefix].

=head2 endsWith

    endsWith(text, postfix, caseSensitive = True)

Checks whether [text] ends with [postfix].

=head2 trimChar

    trimChar(text, chars)

Removes all leading and trailing occurrences of any character in [chars] from
[text].

=head2 trimCharStart

    trimCharStart(text, chars)

Removes all leading occurrences of any character in [chars] from [text].

=head2 trimCharEnd

    trimCharEnd(text, chars)

Removes all trailing occurrences of any character in [chars] from [text].

=head2 substr

    substr(text, startIndex, Optional length)

Returns a sub-string of [text].
If [length] is missing returns the sub-string up to the end of [text].
If [startIndex] is <0 it is counted from the back.
If [length] is <0 it is no longer a length, but an end index counted from the
back.
If [startIndex] or the resulting end index end up being outside of [text],
throws C<E_INDEXOUTOFRANGE>.


=head2 split

    split(text, separator = " ") As List

Splits [text] on [separator] and returns a C<String> typed C<List> containing
the sub texts. When splitting with an empty string as [separator] the string
is split on every char.

=head2 join

    join(list, separator)

Joins all elements in [list] and puts a [separator] between each.
[list] need not be of type String. If it's not a numeric or string type, then
C<Variants.gist()> is used to stringify the value.

=head2 toChars

    Strings.toChars("abc") ' ["a" "b" "c"]

Explodes the string into a C<String> typed C<List> of single characters.

=head2 repeat

    Strings.repeat("<>", 10) ' "<><><><><><><><><><>"

Repeats the given text.
Throws C<E_ARGUMENTOUTOFRANGE> if the repetition number is negative.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

Do not confuse this class with the C<VBA.Strings> module which also contains
string related functions. In general the functions in that module can be
accessed using the plain function name without the C<VBA.Strings.> prefix, while
the functions in this class need to be called using C<Strings.function()>.

=cut
